README.md, before:

## Bridge

This is a special propose Bridge node. Bridges are Bitcoin nodes that holds the entire UTXO set in a forest, allowing it to generate proofs in place for blocks and transactions. The goal with this node is provide a simple and efficient tool to generate proofs for the Bitcoin network.

It contains multiple components:

    - A Bitcoin node that accepts connections from other nodes and clients and can serve proofs for blocks and transactions.
    - A REST API that can be used to query the node for proofs.
    - A websocket that serves as lightweight replacement to the bitcoin p2p. It notifies clients about new blocks, sending the necessary proofs.
    - The actual proof generation code.

## Installation

### Requirements

- Rust 1.51.0 or later
- Linux or MacOS
- Because just keep things on RAM, you'll need a machine with at least 16GB of RAM.
- At least 500GB of free disk space, 1TB recommended.
- A trusted source of blocks to connect to. You can use Bitcoin Core.

### From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Davidson-Souza/bridge
cd bridge
cargo build --release
```

## Using

### Running the node

This bridge node doesn't perform any validation on the blocks, so you'll need a trusted source of blocks to connect to. You can use the [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) node to connect to grab blocks from. This is the only dependency of the node.
Assuming you have a Bitcoin node running, just start the bridge as follows:

```bash
./target/release/bridge
```

The bridge will start listening on port 8333 for incoming connections from other nodes and clients. It will also start a websocket server on port 8334. API runs on port 8335. See [the API docs](docs/API.md) for more information.
## Building with esplora backends

You can use esplora backends to grab blocks and transactions. To do so, you'll need to enable the `esplora` feature when building the node:

```bash
cargo build --release --features esplora
```

Then, you'll need to set the `ESPLORA_URL` environment variable to the url of the esplora backend you want to use. For example:

```bash
export ESPLORA_URL=https://blockstream.info/api
```

This will reduce one requirement for running the bridge, but will make your setup slower and less secure. You'll need to trust the esplora backend to provide you with the correct blocks and transactions. We have no way to know if the esplora backend is lying to us.

### Features

- [x] Proof generation for blocks
- [x] Proof generation for individual transactions
- [x] Use other backends than bitcoin core (you can use esplora backends, like blockstream.info/api and mempool.space/api)
- [ ] Batch proof generation for individual utxos (not in the same tx)
- [ ] Spend proofs
- [ ] Proof generation for mempool transactions
- [x] API
- [ ] Websocket
- [x] P2P
- [ ] Trusted utxo commitment for instant ibd
- [ ] Lease the accumulated utxo set to other nodes (fast bridge bootstrapping)
- [ ] Support for pruning
- [ ] Support for pruning with checkpoints
- [ ] Leaf caches should allow for disk persistence, so we can reduce memory usage without needing to ask for utxos again.
- [ ] Rustreexo should allow for in disk forest.
- [ ] Support for socks5 proxy
- [ ] Support for tor onion services
- [x] Support for ipv6
- [ ] Push roots over nostr on every block
... and more ...

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

## Why do we even need a bridge?

In theory, Utreexo can work without bridges. However, we need all wallets or wallet backends (e.g all electrum servers) to be Utreexo aware, generating proofs for every transaction they produce. Although this is possible, it's not trivial to do so, since we need all wallets to be updated, not only a subset.

A bridge node, although not ideal, allows us to have a few nodes that can generate proofs for the entire network. This way, even though some wallets may never implement it, we can still have utreexo nodes and wallets that can use it. If you need a bridge that's also a full node, check out [utreexod](https://github.com/utreexod/utreexo).

Commit message:

Expose enviroment variables and add docker

README.md, after:

## Bridge

This is a special propose Bridge node. Bridges are Bitcoin nodes that holds the entire UTXO set in a forest, allowing it to generate proofs in place for blocks and transactions. The goal with this node is provide a simple and efficient tool to generate proofs for the Bitcoin network.

It contains multiple components:

    - A Bitcoin node that accepts connections from other nodes and clients and can serve proofs for blocks and transactions.
    - A REST API that can be used to query the node for proofs.
    - A websocket that serves as lightweight replacement to the bitcoin p2p. It notifies clients about new blocks, sending the necessary proofs.
    - The actual proof generation code.

## Installation

### Requirements

- Rust 1.51.0 or later
- Linux or MacOS
- Because just keep things on RAM, you'll need a machine with at least 16GB of RAM.
- At least 500GB of free disk space, 1TB recommended.
- A trusted source of blocks to connect to. You can use Bitcoin Core.

### From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Davidson-Souza/bridge
cd bridge
cargo build --release
```

### Docker

We provide a Dockerfile that can be used to build a docker image. You can build it as follows:

```bash
docker build -t bridge .
```

or you can pull it from dockerhub:

```bash
docker pull dlsz/bridge
```

## Using

### Running the node

This bridge node doesn't perform any validation on the blocks, so you'll need a trusted source of blocks to connect to. You can use the [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) node to connect to grab blocks from. This is the only dependency of the node.
Assuming you have a Bitcoin node running, just start the bridge as follows:

```bash
./target/release/bridge
```

The bridge will start listening on port 8333 for incoming connections from other nodes and clients. It will also start a websocket server on port 8334. API runs on port 8335. See [the API docs](docs/API.md) for more information.
## Building with esplora backends

You can use esplora backends to grab blocks and transactions. To do so, you'll need to enable the `esplora` feature when building the node:

```bash
cargo build --release --features esplora
```

Then, you'll need to set the `ESPLORA_URL` environment variable to the url of the esplora backend you want to use. For example:

```bash
export ESPLORA_URL=https://blockstream.info/api
```

This will reduce one requirement for running the bridge, but will make your setup slower and less secure. You'll need to trust the esplora backend to provide you with the correct blocks and transactions. We have no way to know if the esplora backend is lying to us.

## Environment variables

There are a few environment variables that can be used to configure the bridge node. See .env.sample for a list of all variables.

### Features

- [x] Proof generation for blocks
- [x] Proof generation for individual transactions
- [x] Use other backends than bitcoin core (you can use esplora backends, like blockstream.info/api and mempool.space/api)
- [ ] Batch proof generation for individual utxos (not in the same tx)
- [ ] Spend proofs
- [ ] Proof generation for mempool transactions
- [x] API
- [ ] Websocket
- [x] P2P
- [ ] Trusted utxo commitment for instant ibd
- [ ] Lease the accumulated utxo set to other nodes (fast bridge bootstrapping)
- [ ] Support for pruning
- [ ] Support for pruning with checkpoints
- [ ] Leaf caches should allow for disk persistence, so we can reduce memory usage without needing to ask for utxos again.
- [ ] Rustreexo should allow for in disk forest.
- [ ] Support for socks5 proxy
- [ ] Support for tor onion services
- [x] Support for ipv6
- [ ] Push roots over nostr on every block
... and more ...

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

## Why do we even need a bridge?

In theory, Utreexo can work without bridges. However, we need all wallets or wallet backends (e.g all electrum servers) to be Utreexo aware, generating proofs for every transaction they produce. Although this is possible, it's not trivial to do so, since we need all wallets to be updated, not only a subset.

A bridge node, although not ideal, allows us to have a few nodes that can generate proofs for the entire network. This way, even though some wallets may never implement it, we can still have utreexo nodes and wallets that can use it. If you need a bridge that's also a full node, check out [utreexod](https://github.com/utreexod/utreexo).
